- One of the hardest operational problems to solve
in a micro-services architecture is evaluating call chains
and aggregating logging associated to those call chains.
When an issue arises in a micro-services architecture,
it can become very difficult to see all of the moving parts,
especially when you consider that your calls
spin multiple virtual machines or containers,
and separate sessions.
The good news is that solving these problems
can be relatively straightforward,
but you need to plan for those operations early
in your build process.
A unified approach early on in the process
will prevent serious rework once you realize the value
of these principles in your overall architecture.
I would strongly recommend you take this advice seriously,
and plan for unification on these topics
across your organization.
We will start our discussion with logging.
You will find that having quality logging
throughout your API calls will be critical to not only
evaluate the day-to-day operations of your system,
but they become very useful in troubleshooting,
maintenance, investigations, and other general tasks
of your system.
The issue of logging, however,
becomes significantly noisier
in a micro-services environment.
Part of the issue is simply the larger volume of artifacts
in the system, but also because of the agile nature
that is bred from this architecture.
You often have various functional teams
building different services.
As such, each of these teams may end up developing
different logging strategies, as well as formatting.
While the lack of unification of log data
may not seem like a big deal, the reality is that
as you move to a distributed system
there's an increased need to have some sort of convergence
in your logging behaviors.
As the system size grows, you may find yourself
moving from traditional file-system based logging
to log aggregators.
These log aggregators make uniformity
that much more critical, so that you can coalesce them
and scan them more easily.
Part of making logging more powerful
in a distributed environment is the ability to determine
the actual flow, not only through your service,
but through the system as a whole.
There is a solution for this need,
and it's often called tracing.
Tracing is based on the concept of creating
a unique token, called a trace,
and using that trace in all internal logging events
for that call stack.
By embedding this value in all
of the logging and timing output
for all of the services involved.
Each service uses the trace, and then passes it downstream
to all of the service calls it makes.
Each of those, in turn, do the same.
There are several different strategies
for moving the trace ID from service to service,
but the important part is that the trace ID exists
in all of the log messaging, for all services
throughout the system for a given call stack.
By leveraging this strategy, you can aggregate
a set of log messages and timings
when looking at call metrics and behavior.
Determining the behavior from a single client interaction
through a system in a micro-services architecture
is hard, but tracing makes this problem much simpler.
If you structure your log messages in a unified manner,
and include the trace, you will see a huge benefit
when the need arises.